Let's send our first e-mail now.
This requires a lot of configuration that again you'll just have to get used to.
So if it looks overwhelming Don't worry.
Once you have this basic setup you can send any type of e-mail you want.
So the first thing we're gonna do is I'm going to say email is going to equal this e-mail message that
I just imported this e-mail message.
Class and this is going to be our email object from here we can add to this object the from key which
will be hey who is this e-mail from.
This e-mail is going to be from myself from Andre Nagai
next is Who is this e-mail going to be to Well this e-mail is going to be too.
Well let's say Andre at 0 2 mastery dot Io.
So we want to send that e-mail to this e-mail address and then the e-mail subject line will say what
should we say let's create the worst spammy e-mail possible.
I think this will be funny.
Let's say you won a million dollars.
There you go.
That's a spammy subject line that's for sure so that's our subject.
The next thing we're going to do is say Email dot set content method which essentially says what's the
content of the email.
In our case let's just say I am a python master.
Now in here we can actually set any type of content we want.
We can do text.
We can do HDMI all we can do images.
We're going to get to that a little bit later on.
But for now this is fine.
There you go.
That's our email object with the from two subject and content.
We have our email but we need to send it right.
So what we need to do is to use this SMP server to log in to our Gmail client and then send that email
from there.
So all we're going to do is say with S.M. T.P. lib dot SMP and in here we're going to say what is going
to be our SMP server.
And the reason I got you to create a Gmail account is just so you can follow along because this is going
to be custom to whatever email client you're using in our case we want our host to be Gmail.
So I'm going to say S.M. tepee dot gmail dot com.
This is going to be our host and then this SMP is going to be running on pt. 5 8 7 again.
You don't have to know this exactly.
If we go back to SMP you see over here that typically submit I'm going e-mail to the mail server on
Port 587.
Remember at some TB is a protocol.
It's a standard for machines to communicate with each other by using port 587.
It's just a standard way for SMP server to be run.
Like I said this is one of those things that you can usually just google around and copy and paste because
it's going to be the same if you have a different client than G.M..
Then again you can google and see what type of host you need in our case let's continue here.
We're going to say with this host as S.M. T.P. because we're going to use this now let's make this a
little bit bigger so you can see an in here.
This is the part that's going to look confusing but again it's just you do it once and once you do it
you have an e-mail server they can use.
I'm going to say as empty dot E H L O.
Kind of looks like hello but it's not Hello this is actually part of the protocol of the S M TB.
Again the agreement it starts with a little hello message that well it's type like this you can actually
Google why this method is like this and not actually says hello.
It's actually a pretty funny story.
So we have a 70 B Hello So that's the initial hey this is a server I'm awake.
Hello message.
Next we do the SMP dot start T L S and tell us is an encryption mechanism.
So we want to connect securely to the server.
And now this is the critical part.
Up until this point you might be confused as to what we're actually doing here.
We're essentially with this next line we're going to connect to this email account this G.M. account
that I created so that instead of me opening this page hitting compose and writing that email that we
already wrote I can do it from code.
So what am I going to do.
I'm going to say S.M. T.P. dot log in and I'm going to log in with my credentials.
So the first one is going to be this dummy e-mail that I created which is 0 2 mastery one at gmail dot
com.
And next is going to be the password that I used for this log in.
Again this is something that because I've created a dummy account I don't mind sharing it with you.
The password is Hello ziti am my old friend
so this way I'm able to log in to this server and guess what we're doing next.
Well next we're going to say Send message.
And we're going to send where we're going to send this whole email that we've created.
So let's do e-mail and just for fun at the end we'll say print all good boss.
There we go.
Now if we didn't make any errors this should actually work.
Let's give it a go.
I'm going to say Python 3 and then run our email sender dot pi.
I want to give you a warning here.
If you've named your PI file e-mail dot pi this actually might give you an error.
So make sure you name it something other than email dot pi.
Let's give it a go.
There's a bit of a pause and we have all good boss.
There was a pause here because we had to connect to our server log in to our account and then send the
e-mail and then all good boss.
So it looks like this code worked.
So let's test it out.
I logged in to this dummy account and I sent an e-mail to Andre at 0 2 mastery data.
Oh let's check that e-mail account and look at that.
You won a million dollars.
I am a python master from the e-mail address of our dummy account.
Now I actually had to pull this out of the spam folder because it was marked as spam because well it
definitely looks like spammy email so that's awesome.
We're just able to send an e-mail through python.
How cool is that in the next video we're going to explore this a little bit more and make this a little
bit more dynamic so we can customize it to each individual that we send e-mail to.
I'll see you on the next one.
Bye bye.